Digital Service Standard
========================

The Digital Service Standard establishes the criteria that Australian
Government digital services must meet to ensure our services are
simpler, faster and easier to use. Meeting the criteria means we can
consistently provide high quality services and satisfy our users' needs.

All services within the [scope of the
Standard](/standard/scope-digital-service-standard) must meet the
criteria before they can be launched. After launch, we will report
against our service performance.

This Standard is in beta phase and is intended for service delivery
teams in Australian Government agencies. The beta version was developed
with Government agencies and will be continuously improved to reflect
emerging best practice. We encourage
your [feedback](/feedback-design-guidance?url_from=standardpage) on the
Standard to ensure it continues to deliver high quality outcomes.

The Standard is supported by [Design Guides](/design-guides). The Guides
will help agencies design trusted and cost-effective government services
that are welcomed by users. In consultation with you - the service
practitioners in government - we will continue to develop the Guides
over the coming months, so stay tuned for updates.

You will notice we are speaking a new language; we are personalising our
content and making things clearer. We welcome your participation, so get
involved!  

The Criteria
------------

Government agencies will be expected to:

1.  Understand user needs, conduct research to develop a deep knowledge
    of who the service users are and what that means for digital and
    assisted digital service design​

2.  Establish a sustainable multi-disciplinary team that can design,
    build, operate and iterate the service, led by an experienced
    service manager with decision-making responsibility

3.  Adopt a user-centred design approach​

4.  Establish benchmarks to measure user satisfaction, digital take-up,
    completion rates and cost per transactions and report performance
    publicly​

5.  Evaluate what data, tools and systems will be used to build, host,
    operate and measure the service and how to adopt, adapt or procure
    them

6.  Assess what personal user data and information the service will be
    providing, using or storing and put in place appropriate measures to
    address security risks, legal responsibilities and privacy
    considerations​

7.  Build the service using agile, iterative, collaborative and user-centred methods

8.  Build the service with consistent look, feel, tone and function that
    meets the needs of users including those with disability

9.  Use web service APIs, open standards and common government solutions
    where possible and make all new source code open and reusable where
    appropriate

10. Test the service on all common browsers and devices, using dummy
    accounts and selecting representative samples of users

11. Integrate the service with any non-digital interactions​

12. Put appropriate assisted digital support in place that's aimed
    towards those who genuinely need it

13. Consolidate or phase out existing alternative channels where
    appropriate​

14. Undertake ongoing user research and usability testing to
    continuously inform service improvement​

15. Use data and analytics tools to collect and report performance data;
    informing continual service improvements​

16. Provide ongoing assurance, supported by analytics, that the service
    is simple and intuitive enough that users succeed first time
    unaided​

*The Digital Service Standard has been adapted from the [UK Government’s
Digital by Default Service
Standard](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/digital-by-default-26-points) under
the [Open Government Licence
v2.0](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2/).*
