Meeting the needs of different users {#page-title .page__title .title}
====================================
28/04/2015 - 2:01pm

Author: Jacqui van Teulingen

We’ve been getting some great feedback from the initial guidance on [how
to apply the Digital Service Standard](/standard/how-apply-standard).
One of the important challenges that’s been raised is how to meet the
needs of specialists who often have very different requirements from
general users; for example, lawyers and accountants.

In our guidance about [writing digital
content](/standard/how-apply-standard/writing-digital-content) we
recommend using plain English and writing as simply as possible. This
style is not going to work for every user, and that’s why we suggest
this rule of thumb: **make communication as simple as its users need**.
This applies to designing graphics, planning information architecture
and other service design decisions.

This is why [user research](/standard/how-apply-standard/user-research)
is so important. As you start talking with your users you’ll often
discover significantly different needs. One group of users may need
similar information to another, but in much greater detail. In certain
circumstances your user research may tell you that you need to write the
same content twice: one version for a general audience and another for
technical users.

A great example is the journey mapping work that [IP
Australia](http://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/) has done to make their
content accessible to different kinds of users. Users who identify as
professionals can access the [IP Professional
Portal](http://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/ip-professional-portal/) from the
top of the site to quickly find content and resources that help them to
get their job done. A more general user, say a small business owner
wanting to register a trade mark, might use the [choosing the right IP
checklist](http://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/get-the-right-ip/choosing-the-right-ip/)
to access guides that don’t require professional experience to
understand.

We will be bringing you more examples of how you can meet the needs of
different users in a series of case studies, stay tuned.
