Q & As on the Digital Service Standard {#page-title .page__title .title}
======================================

22/04/2015 - 2:22pm

Author: 

Jacqui van Teulingen

Since we [released the Digital Service
Standard](/news-media/blog/release-alpha-digital-service-standard),
we’ve had some great questions from our community. The following pick up
some of the common themes we’ve been asked about.

*Q: Does the Standard just apply to Australian Government agencies? If
so, what is the likelihood of it being adopted by other levels of
government?*

The Standard applies to all Australian Government (federal) agencies
with [in-scope
services](/standard/digital-transition-plan/scope-digital-service-standard).
We can’t speak for state, territory or local governments on adopting the
Standard, but of course their digital strategies have the same intent -
to deliver better services.  The standard will be updated and improved
to reflect emerging best practice, and we have a rich source of best
practice examples coming from state-based services.

*Q: What is the format of the plan that some agencies need to provide by
September, and what does the plan need to cover?*

[Digital Transformation Plans](/standard/digital-transition-plan) will
outline how agencies will transform their services in line with the
Standard. This includes when agencies will have their high volume
services available digitally and when they will commence adoption of
common services such as the MyGov authentication or a digital mailbox.

The plans will also provide basic data required for benchmarking. Over
time, this will enable us to publish a dashboard showing how the
government’s digital transformation is progressing.

We have a team working on this with the Digital Transformation
Coordinators; the people within agencies supporting the implementation
of the agenda and the development of the plans.

*Q: After agencies submit their plans, how long do they have to conform
with the criteria in the standard?*

All new or improved services must meet the Standard from July 2015.
Plans will describe how agencies will adopt the Standard and deliver
more user-centred services by 2017 and beyond.

The Digital Service Standard is about ongoing and continuous improvement
in the way we design and deliver our services to be user centred, easy,
simple and convenient.

*Q: How does the design standard apply to mobile devices/apps?*

Mobile apps are a digital delivery channel, so the Standard applies.
However, an app should only be developed if the user needs research
supports the need for one. All services need to be usable from any
device, so services using an app will need to provide alternative access
points. There is some initial guidance in [How to apply the
Standard](http://www.dto.gov.au/standard/how-apply-standard) that we
will update over the coming months in creating a Digital Service Design
Guide. 

*Q: How does the standard apply to ‘push’ channels like social media?
For example, tweets could count as government transactions or
information services so would Twitter be covered?*

Most social media use by government is to direct people to a website or
an app where the transaction occurs.  The existing government guidelines
around the use of social media still apply and will be incorporated into
our design guidance.

*Q: What’s the deadline for the Digital Service Design Guide that is
being developed with agencies to help them implement the standard?*

We’ve already published parts of what will become the Guide in the
material supporting the Standard on our website. Over the next couple of
months we’ll keep adding to that guidance. At the end of June we’ll
re-publish this as ‘the Guide’ and then add further guidance as issues
emerge.
